Project Ajax: Cat Baku Blueprint & Technical Specifications V2
Design Version: 2.0 (Full Body Integration)
Project Name: Ajax
Objective: To design a high-performance, quadruped robotic companion inspired by the "Baku" technology described in Jinxed, now featuring full anatomical structural details.
1. Full Body Structural Anatomy
The following table outlines every major physical component required for a complete Cat Baku build.
Body Part
Mechanical Components
Functionality
Chassis (Torso)
Main 120x70mm plate, internal battery cage, brain mount.
Central structural hub housing the ESP32 and LiPo battery.
Head & Neck
Pan-tilt servo assembly, ultrasonic sensor eyes, speaker/mic.
Houses the primary sensors for object avoidance and voice recognition.
Forelimbs (Front Legs)
Shoulder servo, elbow servo, upper and lower leg shafts.
Provides precision steering and forward propulsion.
Hindlimbs (Back Legs)
Hip servo, knee servo, tension springs.
Responsible for power, jumping, and "pouncing" force.
Tail
Single-axis servo, flexible cable or carbon rod.
Assists with dynamic balance during fast turns and expresses emotion.
Outer Shell (Skin)
Removable aerodynamic casing (3D printed).
Protects internals and provides the cat-like aesthetic.

2. Electronics & "The Brain"
Microcontroller: ESP32 (Dual-core) for motor control and AI processing.
Power: 7.4V LiPo Battery with 5V/3A Voltage Regulator.
Actuators: 10x Total Servos (4x Shoulders, 4x Knees, 1x Neck, 1x Tail).
Sensors: Ultrasonic "Eyes," I2S Microphone (Hearing), and IMU (Balance).
3. Software Architecture
void loop() {
  maintainBalance();   // Continuous IMU feedback
  checkSensors();      // Scan for obstacles or commands
  processBehaviors();  // Handle Idle, Walk, or Play states
}


4. Assembly Instructions
Mount Servos: Install the 4 shoulder servos into the chassis corners.
Build Legs: Attach upper limbs to shoulder servos, then lower limbs to elbow/knee servos.
Head Assembly: Mount the pan-tilt neck to the front of the chassis.
Wiring: Route all 10 servo cables to the central ESP32 expansion board.
Shelling: Snap on the outer body panels to complete the "Baku" look.
